# movie-recommender
This project intends to create a movie recommender system from grouplens 100k data set. The data set consists of 100k ratings (1-5) from 943 users on 1682 movies. Each user has rated at least 20 movies. It also includes simple demographic info for the users (age, gender, occupation, zip). The data was collected through the MovieLens web site (movielens.umn.edu) during the seven month period from Sept 19th, 1997 through April 22nd, 1998. 

I read in the data and store it by 2d dictionaries with users and movies as keys and the rating as values. Since each user may not have rated all 1682 movies, to recommend films from those 1682 movies that the user will like the most, it is necessary to predict the void rating values. One approach is user-based collabrotive filtering, which predicts the rating from other similar users who have rated the movie. To find similar users I wrote two functions that calculate distance between users based on euclidean distance and pearson correlation coefficient. 

After plotting two types of figures (two movies as axis and two users as axis) which are stored in the plots folder, I discovered that the Euclidean distance can give misleading result. For example, in the plot of "movie as axis", user548 and  user713 has the smallest euclidean distance of sqrt(8), while user548 and user828 has much larger euclidean distance of sqrt(16). Based on the euclidena distance, I expected user713 to be closer with user548 than user828. However, the plot of "user548 vs user713" shows a best fitting line of negative slope while the plot of "user 548 vs user828" shows a best fitting line of slope near 1. Contrary to what the euclidean distance suggests, user548 has rating patterns more similar with user828 than with user713.

